Title: Exploiting Insecure direct object references

Summary

The application allows authenticated users to access chat transcripts that are stored on the server’s filesystem and retrieved via predictable static URLs.

During the investigation, I identified that clicking on “View Transcript” triggers a file download (e.g., 2.txt). The predictable file naming pattern is a strong indicator of a potential IDOR vulnerability.

Discovery Process

While interacting with the chat functionality, I noticed that selecting “View Transcript” downloaded a file named 2.txt.

To verify how the file was retrieved, I inspected the request using the browser’s DevTools and identified the following endpoint:

https://<lab-id>.web-security-academy.net/download-transcript/2.txt

This confirmed that the application directly maps user-controlled input (file name) to server-side files without proper authorization checks.

Exploitation

I tested whether the file identifier could be manipulated by modifying the request manually:

Original request:
GET /download-transcript/2.txt HTTP/1.1
Host: <lab-id>.web-security-academy.net
Modified request:
GET /download-transcript/1.txt HTTP/1.1
Host: <lab-id>.web-security-academy.net

The server responded with 200 OK, and the file was successfully downloaded.

Impact

The retrieved file contained sensitive information, including a user’s password:

s5ckrccuutbpkefumlhn

This demonstrates that an attacker can access arbitrary users’ chat transcripts simply by modifying the file identifier in the URL.

Root Cause

The vulnerability exists due to insufficient authorization checks on file access.

The application trusts the file name provided in the URL without verifying whether the authenticated user is authorized to access the requested resource.

Proof of Concept
GET /download-transcript/1.txt → 200 OK (Sensitive chat transcript exposed)
GET /download-transcript/2.txt → 200 OK
GET /download-transcript/3.txt → 200 OK
Remediation
Implement server-side authorization checks for every file request.
Ensure users can only access resources they own.
Avoid exposing direct filesystem paths via predictable identifiers.
Use indirect references (e.g., UUIDs mapped server-side) instead of sequential file names.
Conclusion

This vulnerability demonstrates a classic Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR) issue, where predictable resource identifiers allow unauthorized access to sensitive data.Proper access control enforcement on the server side would fully mitigate this issue.


